# Basic Flask Application

## Table of Contents

- [Starting Simple: "Hello World"](#starting-simple-hello-world)
- [Flask Application Structure](#flask-application-structure)
- [Running the Flask Application](#running-the-flask-application)

---

## Starting Simple: "Hello World"

Let's dive straight into code! A basic Flask application to display "Hello, World!" looks like this:

```python
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/')
def hello_world():
    return 'Hello, World!'
```

In this snippet:

- We first import the Flask class.
- Next, we create an instance of this class. The first argument is the name of the application module or package. In most cases, `__name__` is the correct value.
- The `@app.route('/')` decorator tells Flask what URL should trigger our `hello_world` function.
- The `hello_world` function simply returns a string which will be displayed in the user's browser.

---

## Flask Application Structure

When you start building more complex applications, the directory structure plays a crucial role. Here's a basic structure for small applications:

```
/myflaskapp
    /templates
        layout.html
        index.html
        ...
    /static
        /css
            main.css
        /js
            scripts.js
    app.py
```

In this structure:

- **app.py**: This is where the main application code (like our "Hello, World!" example) resides.
- **templates**: This folder contains Jinja2 templates that your app will render. Flask will look for templates in this directory by default.
- **static**: Used to store static files like CSS, JavaScript, and images. Again, Flask knows to look here by default.

As the application grows, you might introduce more advanced structures, including blueprints, separate modules for models and forms, and more.

---

## Running the Flask Application

To run the application, follow these steps:

1. **Set Environment Variables:** This is necessary to tell Flask how to run the app.
   
   ```bash
   export FLASK_APP=app.py
   export FLASK_ENV=development  # enables debug mode
   ```

   Note: On Windows, use `set` instead of `export`.

2. **Run the Application:** 

   ```bash
   flask run
   ```

You should see a message indicating that the server is running. The default address will be `http://127.0.0.1:5000/`. Navigate to this in your web browser to see your application in action!

